Update contribution guide with optimization and migration handling (#572)
saleor/saleor-docs: docs/developer/community/contributing.mdx

Try to combine multiple migrations into one, but remember not to mix changes on the database with updating rows in migrations. In other words, operations that alter tables and use `RunPython` to run methods on existing data should be in separate files.

### Handling migrations between versions

> If you need to add the migration to the module that has different migrations on different versions,
> you need to start from the lower version (let's say 3.1) and create there the changes that you want to apply.
> Then you need to move to the upper version (in our case it will be 3.2), cherry-pick the newly added
> migration (on the 3.1 version), and create a migration merge if needed with use of
> `./manage.py makemigrations --merge`. Follow these steps on all versions and on the main branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to add the migration to the module that has different migrations on different versions,
you need to start from the lower version (let's say 3.1) and create there the changes that you want to apply.

Then you need to move to the upper version (in our case it will be 3.2), cherry-pick the newly added
migration (on the 3.1 version), and create a migration merge if needed with the use of
`./manage.py makemigrations --merge`. Follow these steps on all versions and on the main branch.
```

Try to combine multiple migrations into one, but remember not to mix changes on the database with updating rows in migrations. In other words, operations that alter tables and use `RunPython` to run methods on existing data should be in separate files.

### Handling migrations between versions

> If you need to add the migration to the module that has different migrations on different versions,
> you need to start from the lower version (let's say 3.1) and create there the changes that you want to apply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to add the migration to the module that has different migrations on different versions,
you need to start from the lower version (let's say 3.1) and make the changes you want to apply there.
```

> Then you need to move to the upper version (in our case it will be 3.2), cherry-pick the newly added
> migration (on the 3.1 version), and create a migration merge if needed with use of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then you need to move to the upper version (in our case it will be 3.2), cherry-pick the newly added
migration (on the 3.1 version), and create a migration merge if needed with the use of
```

#### How to handle breaking changes?

- provide a compatibility layer by supporting two solutions for a specified time period and removing them in the next major version
- deprecate API fields instead of removing them

## Optimization

> To check if your solution is optimized, you can get the sql statements that are performed
> and visualize the execution plan for this statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check if your solution is well optimized, you can visualize the execution plan for the performed SQL statements.
```

:::note

> To properly check the performance, it should be tested on at least 1000 instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reliably check the performance, it should be tested on at least 1000 instances.
```

:::

> Below you find a step-by-step guide on how to do this with use of [explain](https://explain.dalibo.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below you find a step-by-step guide on how to do this with the use of [explain](https://explain.dalibo.com/).
```

1. In the first step you need to add `debug` to the GraphQL queries and mutations.
   To do this, follow the steps that are described [here](https://docs.graphene-python.org/projects/django/en/latest/debug/#installation).
   Extend the `Mutation` object type in the same way as the `Query` object type is extended.
2. Extend the query that you want to measure with the `_debug` part:

```GraphQL
_debug {
    sql {
      rawSql
    }
  }
```

You can find an example [here](https://docs.graphene-python.org/projects/django/en/latest/debug/#querying)

> 3. Next choose the statement that you want to visualize from data that you received.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Next, choose the statement that you want to visualize from the data that you received.
```

4. Create the `.sql` file (e.x. `data.sql`) with `EXPLAIN (ANALYZE, COSTS, VERBOSE, BUFFERS, FORMAT JSON)`
   followed by chosen statement.

> 5. Run below command in your terminal in the localization of the previously created file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Run the below command in your terminal in the localization of the previously created file.
```

```bash
psql -h <host-name> -p <db-port> -U <db-user> -XqAt -f data.sql > analyze.json
```

It should look similar to:

```bash
psql -h localhost -p 5432 -U saleor -XqAt -f data.sql > analyze.json
```

> 6. Open the `analyze.json`, copy the data and paste it to `plan` input field in [explain.dalibo](https://explain.dalibo.com/).
>    Add an optional corresponding SQL query if you wish.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Open the `analyze.json`, copy the data and paste it to the `plan` input field in [explain.dalibo](https://explain.dalibo.com/).
   Add an optional corresponding SQL query if you wish.
```

> 7. Press `Submit` button and that's it. You can analyze what you get.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Press the `Submit` button and that's it. You can analyze what you get.
```

#### How to handle breaking changes?

- provide a compatibility layer by supporting two solutions for a specified time period and removing them in the next major version
- deprecate API fields instead of removing them

## Optimization

> To check if your solution is well optimized, you can visualize the execution plan for
> the performed SQL statements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check if your solution is well-optimized, you can visualize the execution plan for
the performed SQL statements.
```

:::note
To reliably check the performance, it should be tested on at least 1000 instances.
:::

Below you find a step-by-step guide on how to do this with the use of [explain](https://explain.dalibo.com/).

1. In the first step you need to add `debug` to the GraphQL queries and mutations.
   To do this, follow the steps that are described [here](https://docs.graphene-python.org/projects/django/en/latest/debug/#installation).
   Extend the `Mutation` object type in the same way as the `Query` object type is extended.
2. Extend the query that you want to measure with the `_debug` part:

```graphql
_debug {
    sql {
      rawSql
    }
  }
```

> You can find an example [here](https://docs.graphene-python.org/projects/django/en/latest/debug/#querying)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find an example [here](https://docs.graphene-python.org/projects/django/en/latest/debug/#querying).
```

3. Next, choose the statement that you want to visualize from the data that you received.

> 4. Create the `.sql` file (e.x. `data.sql`) with `EXPLAIN (ANALYZE, COSTS, VERBOSE, BUFFERS, FORMAT JSON)`
>    followed by chosen statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create the `.sql` file (e.x. `data.sql`) with `EXPLAIN (ANALYZE, COSTS, VERBOSE, BUFFERS, FORMAT JSON)`
   followed by a chosen statement.
```

> 5. Run the below command in your terminal in the localization of the previously created file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Run the command below in your terminal in the localization of the previously created file.
```
